---
template: BlogPost
path: /Buying a used bmw
date: 2021-02-16T14:59:36.571Z
title: Buying a used BMW
thumbnail: /assets/image-5.jpg
---
# What's the best way to purchase a used BMW?
Well, I get this question often,and the answer has been the same .You are your own judge. But first, there are a few pointers one should consider when buying a used car.
 # #  How long the car has been in use.
**How long has the car been used?** is the first point to consider. The german machines are heavily engineered and owners are expected to follow the manual strictly. It's paramount to be able to trace how optimally the car was maintained if you are buying from a private seller.
 
 # #  Average annual maintenance cost.
 # #  Cost of insurance.
 # #  Insurance Cost.
 
1) How used is used? 3 years, freshly out of a lease? Maybe not so bad, 15–20 years old after having been through 4, 5 or more owners? Probably a bad idea or it would not have changed hands so often. If you buy from a private seller, it is paramount to be able to trace how well it was maintained. They may not have abused it, but they may have not have followed to a strict maintenance schedule either. German engineering is very good, but they expect owners to follow the manual very strictly.
2) Inform yourself about the average annual cost of maintenance, etc. It stands at around $900/year. Of course, the average means little if one gets hit by a big repair or more than one. Also, what model are we talking about? A series 3 is not as expensive as a series 5 or, worse, a series 6 or 7. I have a feeling that the ~$900/year is the overall average and, as such, much more representative of smaller BMWs, than the big ones.
3) Ask yourself if you need a reliable car (BMWs are, but only if properly maintained!) or if you are looking for some fun in your driving as well.
4) Check on industry’s publications the most typical problems. That will prepare you better for what lies ahead. Last time I checked, BMW were fine in the engine department (again, if properly maintained, that is), but they have tons of electronics. Hey, even the most recent Honda CR-V’s are not even close to be as reliable as my 1997, for example. Why is that? According to my Honda service advisor it is because now they have lots of electronics as well which is tough to service and expensive to repair/replace.
4) Did you check the cost of insurance? And the annual cost of a plate sticker? Driving a BMW (unless it is 10+ years old) with the bare minimum insurance is not a great idea. You may find that actually insurance and the sticker for your plate to circulate may cost as much as the average maintenance for the car. Actually, probably more.
5) Finally, after having sort of rained on your “parade”, do not let everyone tell you that you are about to make the worst mistake of your life. Surely, BMWs are on the expensive side to own, but they are not endless money pits either if properly cared for. I know because, besides my 1997 CR-V (I cannot let “her” go after 23 years together and 306k miles) I own a BMW X5 as well. So far the only pain has been insurance (it is quite expensive!) and the plate sticker (here in CA that sets me back $522 in 2020 alone, sigh! that is the only thing I was not prepared for, not even close). I am getting 24 mpg on Hwy/Freeway, 22.5 mpg 70% hwy - 30% city, tires are usually good for about 50k-55k miles, and brakes are fine for 50k miles (front) and 60k miles (back). I drive it fast (3 digits) when I can, but do not brake hard, except when usually something or someone unexpectedly happens (mostly someone). So it is not always a calamity waiting to happen. But do your research because if you buy a lemon, it will never grow to be a cantelope or a banana, if you get my message.
6) We are not talking M models here, right? BMW series M are fantastic, but there you can take it for granted that maintenance must be done regularly and it will cost a sweet penny.. Actually, pennies are no good at all, it will costs sweet grands. M series is another ballpark, completely.
7) One personal remark. I have been young too and I bought a Honda CR-V when I was youing because I did not want to carry debt, and even less so a lot of debt, on a car. I could have bought a used BMW 3 series. But I promised to myself that if I ever can afford to go for Audi, Mercedes, BMW, (and now Tesla too), it will never be an entry level model. It has to be a series 5 or equivalent or more. Why? Because in the lower models, you will not get real luxury, even if you add all options. The leather is different, the finishes are different, the engines are smaller and not as refined, etc. So, I promised to myself that if I will get one of those cars, it will be a “real deal”. I went in for the X5M, then decided against. Why? Most beautiful car ever considered and I could afford the price and its maintenance, but it is brutal. So, either I would drive it slowly (which defeats the purpose) or my wife or the occasional passengers will ask me to stop to let them puke. For a passenger cars with 600+ hp are not fun, not a bit. Heck, I do not like to drive on my friends’ 5M! So I went for a more lowly X5 equipped with almost everything to the point that it took me 6 months to remember where all the “stuff” was. I drive it well and I take good care of it. We have been to Laguna Seca track too! I do have a concern though: so much electronics in that car, so much….. if something happens it will not be pretty. However, keep in mind that while a Lexus RX 350 would have been likely more reliable, if something happens to an RX, the bill is going to be steep as well. It is not like fixing a Toyota or a Honda. Hence, if you want some spice and luxury in your life, you need to pay up a bit like all of us.


